.TH taskopen 1 2016-06-24 "taskopen v1.1" "User Manuals"

.SH NAME
taskopen \- A companion application for taskwarrior, that facilitates opening annotations.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B taskopen [options] [filter1 filter2 filterN] [\\\\\\\\label]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Any task in taskwarrior can have zero-or-more annotations. Taskopen can filter, list and open these annotations, and can determine several things about them, based on clues found in the format. An annotation can be a line of text, it can be a link to a file, a link to a program, or a link to a website. If the annotation starts with [label: ]Notes, then taskopen will open (creating if necessary) a text note that is specific to the task, and is named UUID.txt (where UUID is replaced with the actual task uuid).  Taskopen can be custom-configured by editing the
.I .taskopenrc
file, see
.BR taskopenrc (5).

.SH OPTIONS

.SS General options
.TP
.BR \-h
Show a help text.
.TP
.BR \-v
Print version information.
.TP
.BR \-V
Print more verbose version and environment information.
.TP
.BR "\-c <filepath>"
Use alternate taskopenrc file as specified by
.I filepath.


.SS Filter options
.TP
.BR \-a
Query all active tasks; clears the EXCLUDE filter.
.TP
.BR \-A
Query all tasks. This includes completed and deleted tasks as well. Depending on the size of your
database this may be very slow.
.TP
.BR \-n
Only show/open notes, i.e. annotations matching NOTES_REGEX.
.TP
.BR \-N
Show all but notes;  inverse of -n.
.TP
.BR \-f
Only show/open real files, i.e. annotations matching FILE_REGEX.
.TP
.BR \-F
Show all but real files; inverse of -f.
.TP
.BR \-t
Only show/open text annotations, i.e. annotations matching TEXT_REGEX.
.TP
.BR \-T
Show all but text annotations; inverse of -t.
.TP
.BR \-B
Show only files that don't exist; should be used with -f or -n.
.TP
.BR "\-m 'regex'"
Only include annotations that match
.I regex.
.TP
.BR "\--type 'regex'"
Only open files whose type (as returned by the
.I file
command) matches
.I regex.


.SS Execution options
.TP
.BR \-b
Batch mode, processes every matching annotation.
.TP
.BR \-r
Raw mode, opens the annotation text with your EDITOR.
.TP
.BR \-D
Delete the annotation instead of opening it.
.TP
.BR \-e
Force to open the file with EDITOR.
.TP
.BR "\-x [cmd]"
Execute file, optionally prepend
.I cmd
to the command line. See USER COMMANDS for further DETAILS


.SS Output options
.TP
.BR \-l
List-only mode, does not open any file. Can be combined with -L.
.TP
.BR \-L
List-only mode, does not open any file. Shows command line that would be executed. Can be combined
with -l.
.TP
.BR "\-s 'key1+,key2-'"
Sort annotations by the given key which can be any taskwarrior attribute (preceded by 'task_') or 'annot', 'label', 'entry', 'size', 'type', 'time', 'mtime' or 'atime'. A '+' or '-' may be appended to the field indentifier in order to specify a sort order.
.TP
.BR "-i [cmd]"
Execute
.I cmd
for each file and shows its output interleaved with the other output. A default can be set in the
.I taskopenrc
file. See USER COMMANDS for further details.
.TP
.BR "\-p 'cmd'"
Pipe the output of taskopen to 'cmd'. This is supposed to behave just like "taskopen | cmd".

.SH FILTERS
Any argument that is not recognized as an option or label will be passed to taskwarrior as an
additional filter, i.e. any combination of taskwarrior filters can be used with taskopen. The
default filter can be specified in the
.I taskopenrc
file, see
.BR taskopenrc (5).

.SH LABELS
Each annotation can have a "label", which is a leading word with a colon and a space

.RS
<label>: <annotation text>
.RE

The label can be used to filter and/or sort the listings, and (in a future version) it can be used
as to specify how the annotation should be handled. The label may match the NOTES_REGEX in which
case the annotation is considered to be a link to the corresponding Notes file.

.SH "USER COMMANDS"
A user command can be specified on the command line by \-i, \-x or in the taskopenrc file. By
default, the decoded annotation (usually a file path) will be passed as an argument to the user-specified command. This
behaviour can be overridden by using one or more of the following environment variables explicitly:

.TP
.BR $FILE
Contains the decoded annotation (usually a file path or a URI).

.TP
.BR $UUID
Contains the UUID of the corresponding task.

.TP
.BR $ID
Contains the ID of the corresponding task; may be empty.

.TP
.BR $LABEL
Contains the LABEL text of the annotation; may be empty.

.TP
.BR $ANNOTATION
Contains the undecoded annotation text.

.TP
.BR $TASK_*
Such as TASK_PROJECT, which contains the value of the taskwarrior attribute "project" as soon as you
let taskopen know about this attribute by adding it to the TASK_ATTRIBUTES variable in your
taskopenrc.

.RE
This way, for instance, you can choose to pass the UUID instead of the file path to you command like
this:
.RS
$ taskopen -i 'echo $UUID'
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES

.SS Basic usage

Create a new taskwarrior task:
.RS
$ task add Example
.RE

Add an annotation which links to a file:
.RS
$ task 1 annotate -- ~/checklist.txt
.RE

(Note that the "--" instructs taskwarrior to take the following arguments as the description part
without doing any parser magic. This is particularly useful to circumvent bug #819.)

Open the linked file by using the task's ID:
.RS
$ taskopen 1
.RE

or by a filter expression:
.RS
$ taskopen Example
.RE

.SS Default notes
Inspired by Alan Bowens 'tasknote' you can add a default notes file to a task. These files will be
automatically created by the task's UUID and don't require to annotate the task with a specific file
path. The folder in which these files will be stored, the triggering text (default: "Notes") as well
as the command to be executed can be customised by editing the
.I taskopenrc
file.

As soon as you annotate a task with 'Notes':
.RS
$ task 1 annotate Notes
.RE

you can open and edit this file by:
.RS
$ taskopen 1 -n
.RE

which will use your default EDITOR to open a file like
.I "~/tasknotes/5727f1c7-2efe-fb6b-2bac-6ce073ba95ee.txt"

.SS Multiple annotations
You can also add weblinks to a task and even mix all kinds of annotations:
.RS
$ task 1 annotate web: www.taskwarrior.org

$ task 1 annot I want to consider this

$ task 1 ann -- man: ~/Documents/manual.pdf

.RE

(note: taskopen currently works only with "link-type" annotations, so the second annot above will not be listed)
There are various ways to open either the URI or the pdf file. If taskopen finds more than one
annotation matching the filter, it will output a list and ask for user interaction:

.RS
$ taskopen 1

Please select an annotation:
   1) man: ~/Documents/manual.pdf
   2) web: www.taskwarrior.org
   3) Notes
   4) ~/checklist.txt

Type number(s):
.RE

Enter the number(s) of the annotation to open it, or any other character to abort. Multiple selections can be opened in sequence, by entering a comma-separated list and/or range (as in 1,3,4 or 2-4)

You can use filters to directly address the desired annotation(s)...

by label:

.RS
$ taskopen 1 \\\\web
.RE

by regular expression:

.RS
$ taskopen 1 -m Doc
.RE

or by file type:

.RS
$ taskopen 1 --type PDF
.RE

Filter options and taskwarrior attributes can be used in any combination.

.SS Clean up annotations
The -x option can be used to execute arbitrary commands. The decoded annotation, which will be a
file path in most cases, will be passed as a command line argument. This enables the user to do
fancy things like removing unused files from the filesystem:

.RS
$ taskopen -x 'rm' -A status.is:deleted
.RE

This command will show you a list of annotations of any deleted task. You can then select one or
even multiple items of the list in order to remove the corresponding file from the filesystem.

You may also decide to precheck the command that is going to be executed by taskopen by adding the
-L argument.

If you are sure that you want to execute the command on every file you may consider activating the
batch mode by adding the -b option. Taskopen will then skip the user interaction and automatically select all
entries from the list.

.SS Repair broken links
The -B option can be used to detect links to files that don't exist and to repair the annotations,
e.g.:

.RS
$ taskopen -b -f -B -r
.RE

This command operates in batch mode (-b), but only on annotations matching FILE_REGEX (-f) that link to non-existing files
(-B). For each of those annotations it jumps into raw editing mode (-r) so that you can correct the
annotation text.

.SS Output/interleave additional information
Interleaving of arbitrary information can be achieved by using the
.I "-i 'cmd'"
argument. This is particularly useful when you are using rather general filters. The provided
.I cmd
will be executed for every annotation that is going to be listed and the output of this command will
be interleaved with the list items. Taskopen comes with a number of helper scripts that may be
useful for this, e.g. for peeking into all your Notes files:

.RS
$ taskopen -i 'headindent -n 5' -n
.RE

.SH FILES & FOLDERS

.TP
~/.taskopenrc
User configuration file - see also
.BR taskopenrc (5).
This can be overriden by the -c argument.

.TP
~/.taskopen/scripts/
User-specific extension scripts. Will be contained in taskopen's PATH variable by default.

.SH HISTORY
.TP
.BR "2010 \- 2012"
The first release of taskopen was a quite simple bash script.

.TP
.BR "early 2013"
Re-implementation of taskopen in perl.

.SH "CREDITS & COPYRIGHTS"
Copyright (C) 2010 \- 2016, J. Schlatow

Taskopen is distributed under the GNU General Public License. See
.I http://www.opensource.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.php
for more information.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR taskopenrc (5)

For more information regarding taskopen, see the following:
.br

.TP
The official site at
.I <https://github.com/ValiValpas/taskopen/>

.TP
The official code repository at
.I <git://github.com/ValiValpas/taskopen.git>

.SH REPORTING BUGS
.TP
Bugs in taskopen may be reported to the issue-tracker at
.I <https://github.com/ValiValpas/taskopen/issues>

